#Introduction

<p>    
A music streaming startup, Sparkify, has grown their user base and song database and want to move their processes and data onto the cloud. Their data resides in S3, in a directory of JSON logs on user activity on the app, as well as a directory with JSON metadata on the songs in their app.As their data engineer, you are tasked with building an ETL pipeline that extracts their data from S3, stages them in Redshift, and transforms data into a set of dimensional tables for their analytics team to continue finding insights in what songs their users are listening to. You'll be able to test your database and ETL pipeline by running queries given to you by the analytics team from Sparkify and compare your results with their expected results.
</p>

###Project Description

<p> In this project, we'll apply all data warehouses implementation on AWS and build an ETL pipeline for a database hosted on Redshift. Through this project, we will need to load data from S3 to staging tables on Redshift and execute SQL statements that create the analytics tables from these staging tables.
</p>


###Project Datasets

<p>we'll be working with two datasets that reside in S3. Here are the S3 links for each:

1) Song data: s3://udacity-dend/song_data
2) Log data: s3://udacity-dend/log_data
   Log data json path: s3://udacity-dend/log_json_path.json
</p>

#####1) Song Dataset

<p>
The first dataset is a subset of real data from the Million Song Dataset. Each file is in JSON format and contains metadata about a song and the artist of that song. The files are partitioned by the first three letters of each song's track ID. For example, here are filepaths to two files in this dataset.
</p>
    
######example:

song_data/A/B/C/TRABCEI128F424C983.json
song_data/A/A/B/TRAABJL12903CDCF1A.json

<p>And below is an example of what a single song file, TRAABJL12903CDCF1A.json, looks like.</p>

######sample:

{"num_songs": 1, "artist_id": "ARJIE2Y1187B994AB7", "artist_latitude": null, "artist_longitude": null, "artist_location": "", "artist_name": "Line Renaud", "song_id": "SOUPIRU12A6D4FA1E1", "title": "Der Kleine Dompfaff", "duration": 152.92036, "year": 0}

#####2) Log Dataset

<p>The second dataset consists of log files in JSON format generated by this event simulator based on the songs in the dataset above. These simulate app activity logs from an imaginary music streaming app based on configuration settings.
The log files in the dataset you'll be working with are partitioned by year and month. <p>

For example, here are filepaths to two files in this dataset.
log_data/2018/11/2018-11-12-events.json
log_data/2018/11/2018-11-13-events.json


#####Schema for Song Play Analysis

Using the song and event datasets, we'll need to create a star schema optimized for queries on song play analysis. This includes the following tables.

1) Fact Table
    a) songplays - records in event data associated with song plays i.e. records with page NextSong
   songplay_id, start_time, user_id, level, song_id, artist_id, session_id, location, user_agent

2) Dimension Tables
    b) users - users in the app
        user_id, first_name, last_name, gender, level
    c) songs - songs in music database
        song_id, title, artist_id, year, duration
    d) artists - artists in music database
        artist_id, name, location, lattitude, longitude
    e) time - timestamps of records in songplays broken down into specific units
        start_time, hour, day, week, month, year, weekday

#####Scripts:

1) create_table.py is where we'll create your fact and dimension tables for the star schema in Redshift.
2) etl.py is where we'll load data from S3 into staging tables on Redshift and then process that data into your analytics tables on Redshift.
3) sql_queries.py is where we'll define you SQL statements, which will be imported into the two other files above.



#####Create Table Schemas
    
1. Design schemas for your fact and dimension tables
2. Write a SQL CREATE statement for each of these tables in sql_queries.py
3. Complete the logic in create_tables.py to connect to the database and create these tables
4. Write SQL DROP statements to drop tables in the beginning of create_tables.py if the tables already exist. This way, you can run create_tables.py whenever you want to reset your database and test your ETL pipeline.
5. Launch a redshift cluster and create an IAM role that has read access to S3.
6. Add redshift database and IAM role info to dwh.cfg.
7. Test by running create_tables.py and checking the table schemas in your redshift database. You can use Query Editor in the AWS Redshift console for this.

#####Build ETL Pipeline
1. Implement the logic in etl.py to load data from S3 to staging tables on Redshift.
2. Implement the logic in etl.py to load data from staging tables to analytics tables on Redshift.
3. Test by running etl.py after running create_tables.py and running the analytic queries on Redshift database to compare your results with the expected results.
4. Delete your redshift cluster when finished.

    
    
#How to run
    
To run this project you will need to fill the following information, and save it as dwh.cfg in the project root folder.

    
[CLUSTER]
HOST=''
DB_NAME=''
DB_USER=''
DB_PASSWORD=''
DB_PORT=5439

[IAM_ROLE]
ARN=

[S3]
LOG_DATA='s3://udacity-dend/log_data'
LOG_JSONPATH='s3://udacity-dend/log_json_path.json'
SONG_DATA='s3://udacity-dend/song_data'

[AWS]
KEY=
SECRET=

[DWH]
DWH_CLUSTER_TYPE       = multi-node
DWH_NUM_NODES          = 4
DWH_NODE_TYPE          = dc2.large
DWH_CLUSTER_IDENTIFIER = 
DWH_DB                 = 
DWH_DB_USER            = 
DWH_DB_PASSWORD        = 
DWH_PORT               = 5439
DWH_IAM_ROLE_NAME      = 
    
#####Script Run    
    
1) Create a python environment with the dependencies listed on requirements.txt
    a) create cluster to set up the needed infrastructure for this project.
    b) Run the create_tables script to set up the database staging and analytical tables
        $ python create_tables.py
    c) Finally, run the etl script to extract data from the files in S3, stage it in redshift, and finally store it in the dimensional tables.
        $ python etl.py


